---
title: Mokymas kitaip
date: 2011-05-12 21:34:53
categories: duona
---

Šaltiniai: 10.1126/science.1198280 1. Educate faculty about research on learning. 2. Create awards and named professorships that provide research support for outstanding teachers. 3. Require excellence in teaching for promotion. 4. Create teaching discussion groups. 5. Create cross-disciplinary programs in college-level learning. 6. Provide ongoing support for effective science teaching. 7. Engage chairs, deans, and presidents. Reaserch-based education 10.1146/annurev.cellbio.24.110707.175306 Too many talented students get the impression from introductory courses that science is simply a collection of facts to be memorized and consequently drop out Over years, the following framework became the standard practice in education: 1. A teacher prepares material on a particular topic 2. Material is presented to students 3. (Optional) Students are continuosly forced to study via homework, in-class quizes, term projects, or class participation. 4. At the end of course, teacher evaluates how well material was mastered by a student. Such framework makes sense when one is supposed to master a particular skill or acquire some fixed knowledge, like learning to ride a bike, solve differential equations, or cite Cicero by heart. However, in recent years, the amount of information exploded enormously, and, unlike back in Newton’s day, (a) it is impossible to know the whole subject fully, (b) knowledge is changing faster than it is possible to teach all of it. However, just like in Newton’s day, we largely rely on the same framework of education. We need a new framework, one that would teach students to accomplish tasks efectively. This framework is further discredited due to the following concerns: 1. Students do not have any influence on the course; they are subject to the teacher 2. One exam = one grade Assumptions: 1. Students do not care to learn (energy minimum) 2. Causality is essential; more causality drives reward (pleasure) 3. Community (friendship) 4. General to specific is not natural; the opposite is natural and thus should be employed. There is an overrepresentation of information, and our brain is very good at figuring out the relevant bits. Read, repeat, reread Notice that (1) is a conservative assumption, so even if you’re more optimistic about students, my proposal will hold nonetheless and even more effectively. if there is a method for effective education under these assumptions, it will hold even (1) is not true.
